welcome back to science and
you as you're walking in the wild a
snake appears from some dry
bushes and bites you above your ankle
how rather unfortunate
keep calm you must keep your heart rate
and blood pressure
low to slow down the spread of the venom
remove your shoes and socks now you must
find out whether the bite came from a
venomous or
non-venomous snake if you see two deep
puncture wounds on your leg they came
from the venomous fellows fangs
in a non-venomous serpent's bite you'll
see small sharp teeth
in a u-shape there are around 600
venomous snake species
and you should look out for vipers and
cobras
each has a different type of venom and
needs different treatments
if a viper bites you don't put pressure
on your wound
trapping the venom in one area could
make the tissue damage worse
then you must rush to the nearest
hospital for treatment
if a cobra bites someone you must tie
the area with a bandage
to stop the venom from going further
into their system
keep an eye on the fella that was bitten
to make sure they're breathing
yes cobra venom can paralyze the
diaphragm
don't suck out the venom it travels so
fast into someone's system
you'll achieve nothing take a good look
at the snake
and if you can snap a few photos of it
to show the medical staff
try to have good picture composition
moving on from snakes to
allergies most people respond to
allergens with a runny nose or some
sneezing
but others have far more complicated
responses
an itchy rash may be a sign of an
allergic reaction
it might look like dermatitis and it can
show up a week
after your exposure to an allergen there
was a
rare case a few years ago someone got
braces for the first time
and after a week they developed an itchy
rash
under their wristwatch and stomach as it
turned out
they were allergic to the nickel and
braces
if you get blisters on your skin after
sitting in the sun
for one to two hours it's probably not
sunburn but an allergic reaction
you may also have some skin redness tiny
raised bumps
and scaling when that happens go to the
emergency room fast
experts will run tests and give you
advice on how to continue from there
sometimes different medications might
cause it too
or fruits such as limes and parsnips can
if you're allergic to pollen stay away
from fruits and veggies
some of them have proteins like the ones
found in pollen
and your immune system responds to it as
real pollen
they can trigger the same allergy
symptoms such as itchiness
swelling of the mouth face and well
you know the gist you're trapped in a
car during a winter storm
outside it's freezing and you begin to
shiver
that's a good thing when temperatures
drop below a comfortable level
your body starts to shake this action
boosts your body's surface heat
production by
500 percent but shivering can only warm
you up for so long
after a while your muscles will run out
of fuel
and they'll stop contracting if someone
suddenly stops shaking
and they grow tired and want to fall
asleep act fast
bring them indoors remove any wet
clothes
rub their hands and feet wrap them in
blankets
and find warm dry compresses to apply to
their chest
neck or lower tummy never put a warm
compress
on their arms or legs the sudden heat
will force
cold blood back to the heart brains and
lungs
causing the body's core temperature to
drop
while you're driving down an empty road
you hear an emergency radio broadcast
about the weather
a tornado watch in your area means that
a tornado is likely to happen
but a tornado warning means a tornado
has appeared on the radar
or has been spotted in person you should
also be on the lookout for hail
it appears when updrafts within a
thunderstorm
push the rain into the thick clouds and
it freezes
but when a tornado is approaching hail
can arrive without rain
then everything gets quiet the air
becomes still and there's no wind
suddenly
you'll see the clouds moving quickly in
a rotating pattern or toward the sky
you'll hear a loud waterfall sound that
will turn into a roar
as the tornado gets close it'll be
similar to the sound of trains
and jets debris will begin to fall
and a funnel-shaped cloud will start to
rotate
pulling branches and leaves upwards
if the tornado is not moving to either
the left or the right
it might be coming towards you and you
won't realize it
until it's too close take shelter
just as you're chilling at home watching
tv
you hear an eerie whooshing noise it
sounds like a soft gush of wind
but you confirm there's nothing there
after checking
all the doors the next day you feel
pressure in your chest and it gets worse
as the week progresses
the chest pains follow with a dreaded
feeling of exhaustion
you can't help but think there's
something wrong with your body
but the problems are within your house
you might have carbon monoxide poisoning
when this gas fills your home it builds
up in your bloodstream
and it replaces the oxygen in your body
poisoning can also cause headaches
nausea
and confusion in those cases run
outside to get fresh air and call
emergency service
also get a carbon monoxide detector and
add it in the hallway
or areas where you sleep check the
batteries twice a year
and when the alarm goes off step outside
and you know who to call you go
ice skating the ice on the lake seems
thicker than it was
and uh oh you hear a cracking snap
and you end up in the icy water first
your body will go into shock because of
the sudden change in temperature
don't worry it will pass after one to
three minutes
now you must find a solid piece of ice
and hold on to it
don't try to climb it just put your arms
on it
kick your legs and push the piece
forward
it will help you drag your body onto the
eyes
once you're on an ice sheet don't stand
up
if you do your body weight will
concentrate on the smaller ice
area and it will break again just keep
rolling
until you're further on the stable
ground
what if you have to break the window of
a hot car
car windows have layers of materials
that can resist
force here's what you need to do
avoid the back windows or the front
windshield of the car
they're harder to bring go for the
passenger and driver's side windows
if you've got a hammer don't hit the
glass in the middle
aim for the edges where the glass breaks
easily
now if the windows refuse to break with
a hammer
screwdriver or whatever you've got
around
look for a small pointy rock if that
doesn't work either
then your best bet is your car's spark
plug
pop your hood pull out the spark plug
break the porcelain casing
and throw the broken ceramic piece
anywhere at the window
it's the middle of summer and you're
vacationing somewhere on the pacific rim
suddenly you feel a strong quake
well this could be the first warning
sign of an approaching
tsunami or it could trigger large waves
thousands of miles across but there are
other
telltale signs that a tsunami is
approaching
one is a change in water levels either
rising or
falling if you see the ocean withdrawing
quickly
and the seabed getting exposed you
should run at least 100 feet above sea
level
and one mile inland many experts say
once the seawater starts receding you've
got
five minutes to evacuate before the
enormous wave hits
remember it's all about science and
you